README.md, before:

#FirebrowseR
FirebrowseR is a R client for Broads Firehose [Web API](http://firebrowse.org/api-docs/), which is serving the data generated by the [Firehose Pipeline](http://firebrowse.org/). __Note__: This pipeline feeds the [TCGA](https://tcga-data.nci.nih.gov/tcga/).

## Why should I use FirebrowseR?
__Short:__ Directly get TCGA/Firhose data into R

__Long:__ Whoever used the TCGA downloads should have noticed that the formats are never the same, even for data sets of the same type. Broads Firehose API resolves these issues. You directly receive `JSON`, `CSV` or `TSV` output. At this point _FirebrowseR_ is entering the game, directly connecting your R session to the API and let's you query for all data sets. You receive standardized data frames or json objects (requiring the `jsonlite` package).

## How do I get it?
__Short:__ `devtools::install_github("mariodeng/FirebrowseR")` or `install.packages("FireBrowseR")`

__Long:__ Awaiting CRAN release at the moment, so the second command does not work right now. The commands above are executed from your R session. The first one requires the `devtools` package to be installed. If it's not already installed, please do so by executing `install.packages("devtools")`.

## How do I use it
__Short:__

```r
require(FirebrowseR)
mRNA.Exp = Samples.mRNASeq(gene = c("PTEN", "RUNX1"),
                           tcga_participant_barcode = c("TCGA-GF-A4EO",
                                                        "TCGA-AC-A2FG")
                           )
mRNA.Exp[, c("tcga_participant_barcode", "expression_log2", "z.score")]
```

```
##   tcga_participant_barcode expression_log2     z.score
## 1             TCGA-GF-A4EO       10.461968  0.04308039
## 2             TCGA-AC-A2FG       11.061951  0.05874861
## 3             TCGA-GF-A4EO        9.886488 -0.18821984
## 4             TCGA-AC-A2FG       12.356552  0.50702959
```
__Long:__

Please see [vignettes/FirebrowseR.Rmd](https://github.com/mariodeng/FirebrowseR/blob/master/vignettes/FirebrowseR.Rmd)

Commit message:

Adapted to code to version API 1.1.5 beta

README.md, after:

#FirebrowseR
FirebrowseR is a R client for Broads Firehose [Web API](http://firebrowse.org/api-docs/), which is serving the data generated by the [Firehose Pipeline](http://firebrowse.org/). __Note__: This pipeline feeds the [TCGA](https://tcga-data.nci.nih.gov/tcga/).

## Why should I use FirebrowseR?
__Short:__ Directly get TCGA/Firhose data into R

__Long:__ Whoever used the TCGA downloads should have noticed that the formats are never the same, even for data sets of the same type. Broads Firehose API resolves these issues. You directly receive `JSON`, `CSV` or `TSV` output. At this point _FirebrowseR_ is entering the game, directly connecting your R session to the API and let's you query for all data sets. You receive standardized data frames or json objects (requiring the `jsonlite` package).

## How do I get it?
__Short:__ `devtools::install_github("mariodeng/FirebrowseR")` 

__Long:__ The command above is executed from your R session and requires the `devtools` package to be installed. If it's not already installed, please do so by executing `install.packages("devtools")`. Later, when the API has droped its beta status, there will be a CRAN release.

## How do I use it
__Short:__

```r
require(FirebrowseR)
mRNA.Exp = Samples.mRNASeq(gene = c("PTEN", "RUNX1"),
                           tcga_participant_barcode = c("TCGA-GF-A4EO",
                                                        "TCGA-AC-A2FG")
                           )
mRNA.Exp[, c("tcga_participant_barcode", "expression_log2", "z.score")]
```

```
##   tcga_participant_barcode expression_log2     z.score
## 1             TCGA-AC-A2FG       11.061951  0.05874861
## 2             TCGA-GF-A4EO       10.461968  0.04308039
## 3             TCGA-AC-A2FG       12.356552  0.50702959
## 4             TCGA-GF-A4EO        9.886488 -0.18821984
```
__Long:__

Please see [vignettes/FirebrowseR.Rmd](https://github.com/mariodeng/FirebrowseR/blob/master/vignettes/FirebrowseR.Rmd)
